In the last video, we discussed a couple of issues that we were probably going to run into once we
tried to deploy our application.
So in this video, we're going to discuss something called Docker.
We're going to talk about how Docker is going to make our lives a lot easier, particularly as we start
to go towards production with our application.
So what's Docker all about?
Well, with Docker, we're going to create a series of things called Containers.
A container is like an isolated computing environment.
It contains everything that is required to run one single program.
We're going to end up creating separate Docker containers to run each of our individual services.
So we'll create one container to run the event, plus one for posts, one for comments and so on.
If we ever need multiple copies of some service, say if we need multiple copies of comments, then
we will start up a second docker container.
So we can really imagine that there's going to be a 1 to 1 pairing between Docker containers and each
instance of our running program.
Let's discuss why we are going to use Docker at all and what problems it really solves.
So at present, running our application makes some really big assumptions about the environment that
we are really running on.
Let me tell you what I mean by that.
How do we start up our application right now?
We run that command and PM start, right?
Well, to run NPM by itself, we are assuming that NPM is installed on our local machine.
We are also making the assumption that Node is installed on our local machine as well.
So just to run our program, we are making those really big assumptions.
We're saying NPM and Node are both installed on our local machine.
One other thing to be aware of is that even running our application requires some very precise knowledge
about exactly how to start it up.
So we have to run the exact command and PM start.
In order to make each of these different services start up and run.
So in total, not only is starting up our application potentially confusing and kind of mysterious,
but we also have these kind of implicit requirements about the environment that we're running our program
on.
The whole goal of Docker is to remove both those issues by creating containers.
We're going to wrap up all the dependencies that a program requires.
So that means we're going to wrap up NPM and Node into this little isolated computing environment.
And we're also going to include in that container some information about how to start up and run our
program as well.
So all you really need to understand about Docker at this point is that it makes it really easy to run
any arbitrary program you can possibly imagine not just Node.js programs, but any other language.
Anything else you can just about possibly imagine.
It starts to get really easy to run when you are using Docker.
Now, why is that relevant?
Well, let's take a quick pause right here.
Once again, we're going to come back the next video and start to discuss this thing called Kubernetes.
And you're going to see how this Docker thing and this idea of making it really easy to run a program
works really well with Kubernetes.